# Movie Data Analysis Project

## Table of Content

### Project Overview
This data analysis project aims to provide insights into the performance and trends of movies from 2013 to 2016. 

By analyzing various aspects of the movie data, we seek to identify patterns, make data-driven recommendations, and gain a deeper understanding of the industry's dynamics.

### Data Sources
The dataset that I used for my analysis is [Movie Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arpitsinghaiml/movie-data2012-2016) </br>
Hollywood movies released between 2012-2016 including total movie budget and revenue generated by each movie. 
This dataset includes information such as movie titles, release dates, genres, directors, cast members, production budgets, and box office revenues. Analyzing this dataset provides insights into trends in the film industry during those years, such as popular genres, successful production strategies, the impact of directors or actors on box office performance.
### Tools
1. Power Query - I used Power Query for Data Cleaning.
2. Excel - I used Excel for Data Analysis.
3. Pivot Tables - I used Pivot Tables for Creating Reports and Visualizations.

### Data Cleaning and Preparation
In the initial data preparation phase, we performed the following tasks:

1. Data loading and inspection.
2. Handling errors, missing values.
3. Data cleaning and formatting. The Excel file after the data cleaning and with the dashboard can be found here - 
  [Movies Data Analysis Dashboard.xlsx](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/17711509/Movies.Data.Analysis.Dashboard.xlsx)

### Exploratory Data Analysis
1. Which genres were the most profitable these years?
2. Which actors were the most successful?
3. Which movies were best and worst in terms of profit?
4. Which actor
5. Which director
6. Which month was the most successful?
7. Top 5 movies by box office, by budget...

### Results and Findings
As an example: Best profitable movie was **"The Devil Inside"** with the budget of $1,000,000. Box Office Revenue was $102,000,000. The genre of this movie was horror. It might be a great idea to produce a horror movie, especially if Apple TV has a low budget for the next movie.
The most successful genre is **action**.
The most successful actor/actress by box office is **Jennifer Lawrence**.

### Data Visualization


